[MUSIC] As we've called out earlier
writing loops allows us to get our computer to do repetitive work for us. So this is one of the main benefits of
writing scripts in IT is to save time by automating repetitive tasks,
loops are super useful. So let's make sure you avoid some of
the most common mistakes people make when writing loops. One of the most common errors is
forgetting to initialize variables with the right value. We've all made this mistake
when starting to code. Remember how in the earlier examples
we initialized our variable x to 0 in one case and to one in the other. When we forget to initialize the variable
two different things can happen the first possible outcome and the easiest to catch
is that Python might raise an error telling us that we're using a variable we
haven't defined, which looks like this. As we've done with other
errors we've come across, we can look at the last line
to understand what's going on. This error type is a name error and the message that comes after it says
we're using an undefined variable. It's straightforward to fix, we just need to initialize the variable
before using it like this, Fixed. Now, there's a second issue we might face
if we forget to initialize variables with the right value. We might have already used
the variable in our program. In this case, if we reuse the variable
without setting the correct value from the start,
it will still have the value from before. This can lead to some
pretty unexpected behavior. Check out the script,
can you spot the problem? In the first block, we correctly
initialize x to 1 and sum to 0 and then iterate until x equals 10
summing up all the values in between. So by the end of that block, sum equals the result of adding all
the numbers from 1 to 10 and x is 10. In the second part of the code, the
original intention was to get the product of all the numbers from 1 to 10,
but if you look closely, you can see that we're initializing
product but forgetting to initialize x. So x is still 10, this means that when
the while condition gets checked, x is already 10 at
the start of the iteration. The while condition is false before it
even starts and the body never executes. Let's see how this problem would look. In this case, it might be harder to catch the problem
because python doesn't raise an error. The problem here is that our product
variable has the wrong value. If you have a loop that's gone rogue and
not behaving as expected, it's a good idea to check if all
the variables are correctly initialized. In this example, we need to set x back
to 1 before starting the second loop. As always, the best way to learn
is to practice it yourself. Makes sense? Remember, if you ever feel stuck or
a little unsure about something you can always ask for
help in the discussion forums. These forums are there to let you get
the help you need when you need it, so don't forget to use them. So, to recap, whenever you're writing
a loop check that you're initializing all the variables you want to
use before you use them. And don't worry if you don't
get it right the first time, we've all been there when
learning how to code. As we've called out before, the way
to master programming is to practice, practice, practice. Keep practicing until
you're comfortable and even then it's still
okay to make mistakes. So don't feel like you can't or
loop back around to review and practice everything we've covered so far.