[MUSIC] Hi there, and welcome back. Before we dive back in I
want to first say well done. We've learned a lot of new skills
in a short amount of time and tackled some pretty tricky concepts. None of this stuff is easy and
you're doing so great. So we've got some fun concepts
lined up for the next few videos. So far we've seen how to
organize our code and functions. We've also made our code
branch in two different paths depending on certain conditions. In this module we'll learn how to get
computers to do repetitive tasks, which is another
cornerstone of programming. As we've called out before computers
are great at repeating the same task over and over. They never get bored or make a mistake. You could ask a computer to do the same
calculation a thousand times in the first result would be just as
accurate as the last, which isn't something we
can say about us humans. Have you ever tried to do something
at thousand times in a row, it be enough to drive you loopy,
which is why in this course, we're going to learn how to leave
the loops up to the computer. The ability to accurately
perform repetitive tasks and never get tired is why computers are so
great for automation. The automated task could be anything like
copying files to a bunch of computers on a network, sending personalized
emails to a list of users, or verifying that a process is still running. It doesn't matter how complex the task is
your computer will do it as many times as you tell it to, which leaves you time for
more interesting things like planning future hardware
needs, or managing software roll out. In the next few videos we'll
explore three techniques for automating repetitive tasks. These are while loops,
for loops, and recursion. Each of these techniques are used to
tell the computer to repeat a task, but each takes a slightly different approach. We're going to learn how
to write the code for each and how to know when to use one
technique instead of the others. So, are you ready? Let's get started.