[MUSIC] First off,
we're going to talk about while loops. While Loops instruct your computer to
continuously execute your code based on the value of a condition. This works in a similar way
to branching if statements. The difference here is that the body of
the block can be executed multiple times instead of just once. Check out this program. Can you guess what it does? Before we execute it to find out,
let's go through it together line by line. In the first line we're assigning
the value of 0 to the variable x. We call this action initializing,
to give an initial value to a variable. In the line after that,
we're starting the while loop. We're setting a condition for this loop
that x needs to be smaller than 5. Right now we know that x is 0 since
we've just initialized it, so this condition is currently true. On the next two lines, we have
a block that's indented to the right. Here, we can use what we
learned about functions and conditionals to identify that
this is the while loop's body. There are two lines in
the body of the loop. In the first line, we print a message
followed by the current value of x. In the second line,
we increment the value of x. We do this by adding 1 to its current
value and assigning it back to x. So after the first execution of the body
of the loop, x will be 1 instead of 0. Because this is a loop,
the computer doesn't just continue executing with
the next line in the script. Instead, it loops back around
to re-evaluate the condition for the while loop. And because 1 here is still smaller than
5, it executes the body of the loop again. It then prints the message and
once more increments x by 1. So the x is now 2. The computer will keep doing this until
the condition isn't true anymore. In this example, the condition will be
false when x is no longer smaller than 5. Once the condition is false, the loop
finishes, and the next line is executed. And finally, the last line of our
code prints the last value of x. So now that this code
makes a bit more sense, what do you think will
happen when we execute it? Ready to find out? Let's execute the code and
see what happens. So we had five lines with the message,
Not there yet, and then at the end of the script
the value of x was 5. This was a simple example of
how a while loop behaves. As we've said before, we're learning
the building blocks of programming. Once you know those building blocks, you can combine them to create
more complex expressions. As an IT specialist,
while loops can be super helpful. You can use them to keep asking for a
username if the one provided isn't valid, or maybe try an operation
until it succeeds. Knowing how to construct these
expressions can help you get your computer to do a whole lot
with only a little bit of code. It's pretty powerful stuff
we're learning here. Now that you've got an idea
of how a while loop works, let's spice it up with another example.