Now that we're armed
with knowledge of Python's expressions,
comparators, and variables, we can dive right into
how to use them in our scripts to perform different actions
based on their values. The ability of a program to alter its execution sequence
is called branching, and it's a key component in
making your scripts useful. You probably use the idea of branching a bunch in
your everyday life. For example, if it's before noon, you might greet someone
by saying good morning instead of good afternoon
or good evening. If it's raining outside, you might choose to take an umbrella. If it's cold, you
probably wear a jacket. In your scripts, you can instruct your computer to make
decisions based on inputs to. Let's take a look at
an IT-focused example. In many companies, new
employees can choose the username they'll use to
access the company's systems, and usually, the chosen username needs to fit with a
given set of guidelines. Companies can set
different criteria for what a valid
username looks like. For now, let's assume
that at your company, a valid username has to have
at least three characters. You've been tasked with writing
a program that will tell the user if their
choices valid or not. To do that, you could write
a function like this. This function checks
whether the length of the username is
smaller than three. If it is, the function prints a message saying that
the username is invalid. Look closely at how the
if statement is written. We write the keyword if followed by the condition
that we want to check for, and then followed by a colon. After that, comes the
body of the if block, which is indented
further to the right. You may notice that there are
some similarities between how an if block and the
function are defined. The keyword, either def or if, indicates the start
of a special block. At the end of the first
line, we use a colon, and then the body
of the function or the if block is
indented to the right. But there's also an
important difference between how an if block and
a function are defined. The body of the if block
will only execute when the condition evaluates to
true; otherwise, it skipped. Of course, you can do a
lot more things inside the body of the if block
than just printing stuff. As we expand our
programming abilities, we'll learn how to do things like shorten texts that's too long, delete a file if it exists, start a service if it's not
running, and a bunch more. If your code is
inside a function, you could also choose
to return a value depending on whether a
certain condition is met. Can you imagine how
that would look? By now, you know how
to define functions, and inside those functions, you can now make your program do something only when certain
conditions are met. Ready to branch out and make our branches even more
interesting with else statements? Then hop on over
to the next video, or else, you'll miss out.