As we called out before, there are a number of data types in Python that are all sequences. Strings are sequences of
characters and are immutable. Lists are sequences of elements of any type and are mutable. A third data type that's
a sequence and also closely related to
lists is the tuple. Tuples are sequences of elements of any type that are immutable. We write tuples in parentheses instead of square brackets. You might be wondering, why do we even need
another sequence type? Weren't lists great? Yes, lists are great. They can hold any number of
elements and we can add, remove and modify their
contents as much as we want, but there are cases when we want to make sure an element in a certain position
or index refers to one specific thing
and won't change. In these situations,
lists won't help us. Thanks for nothing lists. In our example, we have a tuple that represents
someone's full name. The first element of the
tuple is the first-name. The second element is
the middle initial, and the third element
is the last-name. If we add another element
somewhere in there, what would that
element represent? It would just be confusing and our code wouldn't know
what to do with it, and that's why modifying
isn't allowed. In other words, when using tuples the position of the elements inside the tuple have meaning. Tuples are used for lots of
different things in Python. One common example is the
return value of functions. When a function returns
more than one value, it's actually returning a tuple. Remember the function to
convert seconds to hours, minutes, and seconds that
we saw a while back? Here just to remind you. This function returns
three values. In other words, it
returns a tuple of three elements.
Let's give it a try. We see the result is a tuple. What if we print it? We see that it has the three elements
we expect it to have. Remember, since this is a
tuple, the order matters. The first element
represents the hours, the second one
represents the minutes, and the third
represents the seconds. One interesting thing we can do with tuples is unpack them. This means that we
can turn a tuple of three elements into three
separate variables. Because the order won't change, we know what those variables
are present, like this. So now we've split the tuple
into three separate values. We've seen before that we can
also do this directly when calling the function without the intermediate result variable. In Python, it's really common to use tuples
to represent data that has more than one value and that needs to
be kept together. For example, you
could use a tuple to have a filename and it's size, or you could store the name and email address of a person, or a date and time
and the general health of the system
at any point in time. Can you see how these different
data types could help you automate some of your IT
work? Pretty cool, right? Knowing when to use
tuples and when to use lists can seem a
little fuzzy at first, but don't worry,
it'll get clearer as we tackle more examples.