As the Chinese proverb says, a journey of a thousand miles
begins with a single step. Today's a big day, you're
taking your first step in your journey to learn how
to write scripts in Python. It's going to be a little
challenging at times, but really it's not that scary. We'll go slow and give you
everything you need to fully grasp each concept
before we move along. In the next few videos, you'll discover the
fundamental concepts of computer programming. You'll learn what a
programming language is, what scripting is, what languages are out
there other than Python, and how this all relates to IT. We'll also have you coding
before you know it with small coding exercises
we've cooked up to give you hands-on
practice with Python. This will include writing your
very first Python script. But always keep in mind, if at any point along
the way you feel lost or confused, don't panic. You can watch the
videos as many times as you need to let the
concept sink in, plus you can ask questions
in the discussion forums, which is one of the
best ways to find extra information and
connect with other learners. When I was asked to
participate in this program, it made me think about when
I first started to code. If I could give that
younger version of myself a piece of advice, this is what I would tell her, it never works the first time. Seriously, as a newbie, I expected it all
to work like magic. I thought that following
the rules and getting it right the first time would
prove my value as a coder, but that's just not true, not even the best of the best. If you expect to
write perfect code on the first shot you're
going to be disappointed. You hear that younger self? Try not to feel overwhelmed
by the details. Connecting the dots only
comes with experience, so the best way to learn
is to just jump in. The truth is everyone
learns at their own pace. If you already know
some of these concepts, feel free to skip ahead to the parts that
interests you the most. If you're starting from scratch, take as long as you
need for each concept. The assessments
will be right there waiting for you when you're done, and if at any point you start doubting
yourself, remember, even the most
advanced programmers started thinking, Python? What's Python? Well, we're about to learn all about
it, so let's dive in. Next up, we'll be doing a
rundown of what programming is.