We've now seen how
to write for loops, combine them with functions, nest a for loop inside
a different loop, and even combine a nested
loop with conditionals. Nice job, you're
chugging right along. But before we're
done with for loops, let's check out some
common mistakes you may come across while
trying this yourself. As we've called out are ready, for loops iterate over sequences. The interpreter will refuse to iterate over a single element. As you see here, for x in 25, print(x), in this example, we're trying to iterate
over the number 25. Python prints a
type error telling us that integers
are not iterable. There are two solutions
to this problem, depending on what
we're trying to do. If we want to go from zero to 25, then we use the range function, so for x in range(25), print(x), but if we're trying to
iterate over a list that has 25 as the only element, then it needs to
be a list and that means writing it between
square brackets, for x in list [25], print(x). You might be wondering why
you'd ever want to iterate over a list of one element
and that's a good question. Well, this kind of
issue usually happens when you have a function
with a for loop inside it, which is iterating
over the elements of a list received by parameter. Say for example, you have
a function that fixes the permissions of a list of
files received by parameter, and you want to call
this function to fix the permissions of just
one specific file. To do that, you need to pass the file as the single
element of a list. Let's check this out with some
code we're familiar with, our friendliest of Python
examples, hi, friends. We're going to modify it to have the greetings inside a function. We've defined a greet
friends function, that receives a list
by parameter and iterates over that list,
greeting each friend. But what if we only want to greet one friend instead of four? Well, we still need
to define a list, but with only one element. But first, let's see what would happen if we don't do that, greet_friends("Barry"), not what we expected, right? Well, what's going on here? This happens because
strings are iterable, the for loop will go
over each letter of the string and do the
operation we asked it to do, which in this case,
print a greeting. Depending on what
you're trying to do, you may actually want to iterate through the
letters of a string. But in this case, we don't. So to sum it up, if you get an error that a
certain type isn't iterable, you need to make
sure the for loop is using a sequence of
elements and not just one, and if you find your code
iterating through each letter of a string when you want it to do it for the whole string, you probably want to have that string be a part of a list. We've now learned how to write
while loops and for loops. You might remember, for loops are best when you want to iterate over a known sequence of
elements but when you want to operate while a
certain condition is true, while loops are the best choice. Next up, we've got a super
useful cheat sheet for you that puts all this into
one handy resource. After that, head over to the practice quiz to test your knowledge and check
in on how you're doing.