Welcome back. How are you
feeling after the last quiz? We're starting to learn some pretty cool things that
we could do in our code. Who knew loops can
be so fascinating? We've now discovered two looping techniques
that we could use in Python: while
loops and for loops. We use while loops
when we want to do an operation repeatedly while a certain condition is true. We use for loops when we want to iterate over the
elements of a sequence. Now, we're going to check out a third technique
called recursion. But before we dive in, you may have noticed
that this video is marked as optional. That's because while recursion is a very common technique used
in software engineering, it's not used that
much in automation. Still, we think it's valuable
for you to know about recursion and to have an
idea of how to use it. You may see it in code
written by others or you may face a problem where recursion is the best
way to solve it. So while the next few
videos are marked as optional and you won't be
graded on their content, it's still super valuable stuff. Of course, feel free to skip
them if you'd just rather focus on concepts you'll be
graded on. Let's dive in. Recursion is the
repeated application of the same procedure to
a smaller problem. Have you ever played with
a Russian nesting doll? They are a great visual
example of recursion. Each doll has a smaller
doll inside it. When you open up the doll to
find the smaller one inside, you keep going until you reach the smallest doll
which can't be opened. Recursion let's us tackle complex problems by reducing the problem to a simpler one. Take our Russian nesting dolls, all nested inside each other. Imagine we want to find out how many dolls
there are in total. We would need to open each
doll one by one until we got to the last one and then count how many
dolls we've opened. That's recursion in action. Here's another example with
a more complex problem. Imagine you're in a
line of people and you want to know how many
people are in front of you, and let me tell you I
can't stand long lines. Anyway, if the line is long, it might be hard to
count the people without leaving the line and
losing your place. Instead you can ask
the person in front of you how many people
are in front of them. Since this person will be in
the same situation as you, they'll have to ask
the same question to the person in
front of them and so on and so on
until the question reaches the first
person in the line. This person can confidently reply that there are no
people in front of them. So then the second person
in line can reply one, the person behind
them replies two, and so on until the
answer reaches you. Okay. I know the chances are
pretty small that all of those people would
play along just so you can know where you are in line, but it's a useful way to
visualize how recursion works. How does this translate
into programming? Well, in programming,
recursion is a way of doing a repetitive task by having
a function call itself. A recursive function
calls itself usually with a modified parameter until it reaches a specific condition. This condition is
called the base case. In our earlier examples, the base case would be the smallest Russian doll or the person at the
front of the queue. Let's check out an example of recursive function to understand what we're talking about. Here, we're defining a
function called factorial. At the beginning of the function, we have a conditional block
defining the base case, where n is smaller than 2. It simply returns the value 1. After the base case, we have a line where the
factorial function is calling itself with n minus 1. This is called the
recursive case. This creates a loop. Each time the
function is executed, it calls itself with a smaller number until it
reaches the base case. Once it reaches the base case, it returns the value 1. Then the previously called function multiplies that by two and the previously called
function multiplies it by three and so on. This loop will keep going until the first factorial function called returns the desired
result. It's a bit complex. Let's add a few
print statements to see exactly how this works. So here we can see the function kept calling itself until
it reached the base case. After that, each function
returned the value of the previous function
multiplied by n until the original
function returned. Cool, huh? Next up, we're going to check out
some more examples of when to use recursion and when
it's best to avoid it.