We've seen how we can pass values into a function
as parameters by passing values like the name or department in the
example earlier. But what about getting
values out of a function? This is where the concept of
return values comes to play. The work that functions do
can produce new results. Sure, we can print the
results on the screen, but what if we wanted to
use those results later in our script or didn't want
to print them at all? We can do this by returning values from the functions
we defined ourselves. Let's go back to calculating
the area of a triangle. Do you remember our
triangle example from our earlier exercise? The area of the
triangle is calculated as base times height
divided by 2. Imagine we need to calculate this value several
times in our code. It would be useful
to have a function that does this for us. Check out how this would look. We use the keyword return to tell Python that this is the
return value of a function. When we call the function, we store that value
in a variable. Let's say we have the
two triangles and we want to add up the
sum of both areas. Here's what we
would do. First, we calculate the two
areas separately. Then, we add the sum of
both areas together. Finally, we print the result
converting it to a string. As you can see in this example, the area of triangle
function returns a value which is not surprisingly
the area of the triangle. We store that value in a different variable for
each call to the function. In this case, area_a and area_b. Then we operate with those values adding them into the variable called sum and only
printing this final result. This shows the power of
the return statement. It allows us to combine
calls to functions and to more complex operations which makes your code more reusable. Return statements in
Python are even more interesting because we can use them to return more
than one value. Let's say you have a duration of time in seconds and you want to convert that to the
equivalent number of hours, minutes, and seconds. Here's how to do that in Python. Did you spot the new
operator in this function? That double slash operator
is called floor division. A floor division divides a number and takes the integer part of
the division as the result. For example, five slash slash
two is two instead of 2.5. In our example, the first
operation is calculating how many hours are in a
given amount of seconds. While the second works out how many minutes are left once we subtract the hours and then how many seconds remain
after subtracting minutes. We end up with three
numbers as a result. So the function returns
all three of them. Let's see what this looks like when we're calling a function. Because we know that the
function returns three values, we assign the result of the function to three
different variables. There's one last thing we should call out about returning values. It is possible to return nothing and that's
perfectly okay. Let's look at an example
from an earlier video. Here the function just printed a message and
didn't return anything. What do you think would
happen if we try to assign the value of this
function to a variable? Let's try it out and see. Here when we call the function it printed a message just
like we expected. We stored the return value
in the result variable, but there was no return
statement in the function. So the value of results is none. None is a very special data
type in Python used to indicate that things are empty or that they
return nothing. Wow. That was a lot to learn about functions and
the return values. Remember that the key to
getting this right is to practice writing the code you've just learned as many
times as you need. Functions and return values can be tricky concepts to master, but they let us do a
bunch of cool stuff. So put the time and
effort into learning for some really valuable returns.