Working in IT, a lot of what we do boils down to using
a computer to perform a certain task. In your job you might create user
accounts, configure the network, install software, backup existing data, or execute a whole range of other
computer based tasks from day to day. Back in my first IT job, I realized
that every day I came into work I typed the same three commands to
authenticate into systems. Those credentials timed out everyday
by design, for security reasons, so I created a script that would
automatically run these commands for me every morning to avoid
having to type them myself. Funny enough, the team that monitors
anomalous activity discovered my little invention and
contacted me to remove it, oops. Tasks performed by a computer that need
to be done multiple times with little variation are really well suited for
automation, because when you automate a task you avoid
the possibility of human errors, and reduce the time it takes to do it. Imagine this scenario, your company
had a booth at a recent conference and has gathered a huge list of emails from
people interested in learning more about your products. You want to send these people
your monthly email newsletter, but some of the people on the list
are already subscribed to receive it. So how do you make sure everyone
receives your newsletter, without accidentally sending
it to the same person twice? Well, you could manually check each email
address one by one to make sure you only add new ones to the list,
sounds boring and inefficient, right? It could be, and
it's also more error prone, you might accidentally miss new emails,
or add emails that were already there, or it might get so
boring you fall asleep at your desk. Even your automated coffee
machine won't help you out there. So what could you do instead? You could get the computer
to do the work for you. You could write a program that checks for
duplicates, and then adds each new email to the list. Your computer will do exactly as its
told no matter how many emails there are in the list, so
it won't get tired or make any mistakes. Even better, once you've written
the program you can use the same code in the future situations, saving you
even more time, pretty cool, right? It gets better, think about when
you're going to send these emails out, if you send them out manually you'll have
to send the same email to everybody, personalizing the emails would
be way too much manual work. If instead you use automation to send
them, you could have the name and company of each person added
to the email automatically. The result? More effective emails, without you spending hours
inserting names into the text. Automating tasks allows you to focus on
projects that are a better use of your time, letting computers do
the boring stuff for you. Learning how to program is the first
step to being able to do this, if you want to to get computers to do the
work for you, you're in the right place. Earlier in this video I told you about
the first task I ever automated, now I want to tell you about
the coolest thing I ever automated. It was a script that changed
a bunch of access permissions for a whole lot of Google Internal Services. The script reversed a large directory
tree with tons of different files, checked the file contents, and then
updated the permissions to the services based on the conditions that
I laid out in the script. Okay, I admit I'm a total nerd, but
I still think it's really cool. Next up, it's time to share your ideas. What things would you like to
automate using programming? While these discussion prompts
are optional, they're really fun. Seriously, they let you get to know
your fellow learners a bit, and collaborate on ideas and insights. Make sure you read what others are saying, they may give you ideas that
you haven't even thought of. After that, you're ready to take
your very first quiz of the course. Don't worry, it's just for practice.