There's a ton of things
that you can do with Python and you'll learn many
of them in this course. But before we dive
into complex subjects, let's have some fun with
another simple task that you can do with Python. We are going to make
Python our calculator. Let's start with something easy. So 4 plus 5 is 9, 9 times 7 is 63, minus 1 divided by
4 is minus 0.25. Easy. Repeating or
periodic numbers are printed in a longer format. Let's try 1 divided by 3. In math theory, when
1 is divided by 3, the digit 3 repeats forever
after the decimal point. Of course, it's hard to display something that repeats for ever. So instead, we have a representation showing
lots of decimal places. Not too hard, right? Let's get the computer
something a bit trickier. Let's say we want to
divide 2050 by 5, then subtract 32 and then
divide the result by 9. To do this, we'll need
to use parentheses, just as we do in
typical math problems. You can also use
Python to get squares, cubes, or any power
of n of a number. For example, let's
say we want to find out what 2 to the power of 10 is. To get Python to
give us the answer, we use the double star operator. If you're starting to worry
that this is becoming an algebra course, relax. We're not going to
do anything more complex than what
we've just seen. If you're thinking, "Why would I use Python instead of just
a normal calculator?" That's a valid question. Experimenting in this way, you get familiar with the
language's math capabilities. In IT jobs, there are many tasks that require you
to use math calculations. You might need to
count how many times a certain word appears in a text, or work out the average time it takes for an operation
to complete, or how much you have to compress an image to fit in
certain size constraints. Whatever you need to calculate, writing a script
can help you do it faster and with more accuracy. So you need to know
what mathematical operations are available to you. Python actually has
a lot more advanced numeric capabilities that
are used for data analysis, statistics, machine learning, and other scientific
applications. We won't get into
these in this course. But if you want to learn
more about them on your own, there's a wealth of online
resources available. Next up, a cheat
sheet to help you with programming concepts
that we've just covered. After that, it's time
for another quiz. This time with a few
small coding exercises. Remember, if
something is unclear, you can re-watch the videos
as many times as you need. Ready? You've got this.