[MUSIC] I'm the youngest of four siblings, and my family has always had a culture of
sharing our passions with each other. So when I was a kid, one of my older
brothers brought a computer to our home. And he encouraged me to
tinker with the computer to participate in the online network. And I started coding and
playing around with the computer. And I got really excited. So one of the things I did as a kid with
my computer was get it to do a small text game, kind of a Choose Your Own Adventure
book, but as a computer text game. It was really simple but it got me really excited into being able
to get the computer to do what I wanted. I studied electronic
engineering back in Argentina. I did not study computer science. I taught myself how to
program on my own time. But then I always worked in IT. I never worked as an electronic engineer. I got my first job as an IT support
specialist, but it was just by chance. I only got it because a friend of
mine called me on the phone and asked me whether I knew someone that could
do support for this small company that was looking for someone that could
help them with their IT stuff. And I was like, yeah,
I could be that person. And my only background was to
having done the IT support for my family on my home computer,
my mother's computer. I had no formal education,
no formal training doing IT support, but I felt like I could do the job,
so I took it. And I learned a lot doing that work,
and then I kept learning more skills. I learned how to program for
reals not just text games. And eventually, I got another job as
a software developer and I kept learning, kept learning new programming languages,
new techniques, new frameworks. So I always kept expanding my
horizons because I feel really passionate about programming in general. I've been working for
Google for seven years. I'm originally from Argentina, but
I moved to Germany seven years ago. When I look back to my career in IT, I wouldn't say that I
really face big obstacles. Mostly I would say I faced
opportunities for growth. So if I needed to learn a new
programming language or I needed to learn new technologies,
they were all opportunities for growth.