Welcome back. How did you
do on your first quiz? If you got most of the
questions right, great job. If not, no worries it's
all part of learning. We'll be here to help you
check that you've really got your head around these concepts with regular quizzes like this. If you ever find a
question tricky, go back and review the videos and then try the quiz again. You want to feel super
comfortable with what you've learned before jumping
into the next lesson. Remember, take your time. I will be here whenever
you're ready to move on. Okay. Feeling good? Great. Let us dive in. In this course, we will use the Python programming
language to demonstrate basic
programming concepts and how to apply them
to writing scripts. We have mentioned that
there are a bunch of programming
languages out there. So why pick Python? Well, we chose Python
for a few reasons. First off, programming
in Python usually feels similar to using
a human language. This is because Python makes
it easy to express what we want to do with syntax that's
easy to read and write. Check out this example. There is a lot to
unpack here so don't worry if you don't
understand it right away, we'll get into the nitty-gritty details later in the course. But even if you've never
seen a line of code before, you might be able to guess
what this code does. It defines a list
with names of friends and then creates a greeting
for each name in the list. Now it is your turn to
make friends with Python. Try it out and see what happens. Throughout this course,
you will execute Python code using
your web browser. We'll start with some small
coding exercises using code blocks just like the
one you experimented with. Later on as you
develop your skills, you'll work on larger more complex coding exercises
using other tools. Getting good at something
takes a whole lot of practice and programming
and Python is no different. We recommend that you practice every example we share in
this course on your own. If you do not have Python
installed on your machine, no worries, you can still practice using an online
Python interpreter. Check out the next
reading for links to the most popular Python
interpreters available online. Now I am sure you are wondering what the heck is a
Python interpreter. In programming, an interpreter is the program that reads
and executes code. Remember how we said a
computer program is like a recipe with step-by-step
instructions? Well, if your recipe
is written in Python, the Python interpreter is the program that reads what is in the recipe and translates it into instructions for your
computer to follow. Eventually, you'll want to install Python on
your computer so you can run it locally and experiment with it
as much as you like. We'll guide you through
how to install Python in the upcoming course
but you don't have to have it installed to get
your first taste of Python. You can practice with the
quizzes we provide and with the online interpreters
and code pads that we'll give you links
to in the next reading. We'll provide a whole bunch
of exercises for you but feel free to come up with your own and share them in the
discussion forums. Feel free to get creative. This is your chance to
show off your new skills.