Now that you've got
an idea of what Python code looks like, let's check out one of the most basic examples and dive deeper into what's
going on. Get ready. We're going to use the
Python interpreter to make our computer say
hello to the world. When we run this code either locally on our machine
or on a web interpreter, the words hello world appear on the screen, just like magic. Actually it's not magic. It's because Print is a Python function that writes what we tell it to on the screen. Like the statement hello
world for example, the print function is part of
the basic Python language, whenever we use keywords or functions that are
part of the language, we're using the programming
language's syntax to tell the computer what to do. So what are functions
and keywords? Functions are pieces of code
that perform a unit of work. We'll talk a lot more
about functions later on, and you'll even learn
how to write your own. Keywords are reserved words that are used to construct
instructions. These words are the core part of the language and can only
be used in specific ways. Some examples include
if, while, and for. We'll explain all of those and a bunch more
later in the course. As we called out, the keywords
and functions used in Python are what makes up
the syntax of the language. Once we understand how they work, we can use them to construct more complex expressions that get the computer to do
what we want it to do. Last off, notice how hello world is written between
double quotation marks. Wrapping text in quotation marks indicates that the text
is considered a string, which means it's text that will be manipulated by our script. In programming, any
text that isn't inside quotation marks is
considered part of the code. Now, for a bit of trivia, do you know why we printed the whole world in our example? Well, printing hello
world has been the traditional way to start learning a programming
language since way back in the '70s when it was
used as the first example in a famous programming book called the C
programming language. That example looked like this. In Python, the hello world
example is just one line, in C, it's three lines, in other languages,
it can be even more. While learning to
write hello world won't teach you the
whole language, it gives you a first impression of how functions are used, and how a program written
in that language looks. All right, now that we've written our first piece of Python code, I think you're ready
for something a bit more challenging
than hello world. Ready? Let's do it.