[MUSIC] In the last video, we saw a very
simple example of a while loop. We looked at a basic syntax
of the loop and how it works. Let's now apply this knowledge
to a similar example, but this time with a while
loop inside a function. Can you work out what this function does? In this example, we start out by
initializing a variable called x. In this case,
we initialize it with a value of 1. Then, we enter our while loop which
checks to see if the value inside of the x variable is less than the parameter
n that the function received. If that comparison evaluates to true, then the code inside
the while block is executed. Say we pass a value of 5 as
a parameter to this function. In the first pass through the loop,
x is always equal to 1, so the comparison 2 smaller than or
equal to 5 would be true and we then enter the body of the loop. In the body, we first print a message
indicating that the current attempt number and
then we increase the value of x by 1. To increment the number we're using a
slightly different expression than before. x +=1 is a shorthand version of x = x+1. You can use either expression since
they both mean the same thing. The process continues until the result
of the comparison isn't true anymore, which happens when x is bigger than n. In our current example,
this would be when the value of x is 6. Let's see it in action. In these past examples, we've used
the simple conditions of a number being smaller, or smaller or
equal than another number. These are common conditions, but they're by no means the only
conditions you can have in a while loop. It's common for example to call a separate function
that evaluates the condition, like this. In this case, there's of lot of
code hidden behind functions and it's doing stuff we don't see. There's a get username function
that asks the user for a username and a valid_username
function that validates that username. And all this is happening in
just a handful of characters. As you can see, you can pack a lot of
punch into just a short line of code. In this case, the body of the while
loop will be executed until the user enters a valid username. The important thing to remember
is that the condition used by the while loop needs to
evaluate to true or false. It doesn't matter if this is done
by using comparison operators or calling additional functions. The conditions used in while loops can
also become more complex if we use the logical operators that we
encountered when looking into branching, and, or, and not. This lets us combine the values of several
expressions to get the result we want. Okay, we've now covered what a while
loop is and learned its syntax and basic behavior. Some of this stuff can be a bit tricky and
you're doing great, keep sticking with it. Next, we're going to do a rundown of some
of the most common pitfalls that you may come across when writing your own loops. Head on over to the next
video to get started.