[MUSIC] If you work in IT, computer programming skills open up
an incredible amount of opportunity. Being able to write scripts and programs
that tell your computer to perform a task equips you with an invaluable tool. Not only does it make your work easier and
more efficient, it can help you grow faster and
advance further in your IT career. But how do you even start to learn
a programming language like Python? How do you recognize when to tell
a computer to perform a task? And how do you then write a program to actually get your computer complete
the task you want it to do? The thought of learning to write a program
in Python can make you feel a whole bunch of emotions excitement, anticipation that
feeling of wanting to dive right in and get going and also fear. You might ask yourself, can I really
learn how to code or do I have it in me? I'm here to tell you, yes,
you can absolutely do this. Learning how to program can be scary and
intimidating, but at the same time it's really fun and
really exciting. I coding as in life, if we're going to
get philosophical, the most rewarding work is usually a bit challenging,
but ultimately well worth the effort. Of course, I'm able to say all this from
experience, especially the cheesy parts. My name is Christine Rafla. I'm a systems administrator at Google and
I'm going to be your instructor and guide in this course. The role of a sysadmin can vary
a lot from company to company and even within different
teams in the same company. I happen to work in the corporate identity
and access management operations team, which is a really long way of saying
that we make sure that everyone is represented correctly and if they need
to access certain resources, they can. What I love the most about being
a sysadmin is that the role has so many diverse functions. We handle loads of unique problems and edge cases from tinkering with different
systems to collaborating with other teams. I am always learning something new,
so it's really hard to get bored. It all starts with
knowing how to automate, if you're an IT support specialist,
a systems administrator, or in a role somewhere in between knowing how to get
computers to do the hard work for you will set you apart from others in similar it
roles and make your life much easier. Think about it, would you rather manually
deploy 100 computers on your own or tell your computer to do it all for
you all at once? No-brainer, right, having a coding
skill set can help you grow into more specialized roles like a systems
administrator, Cloud Solutions engineer, DevOps specialist,
site reliability engineer, or who knows maybe even web developer or
data analyst. The point is, being able to write a program is
an essential tool in your IT toolkit and more and more employers are looking for
these skills in the people they hire. If you've ever learned a new skill,
like playing a musical instrument, speaking a foreign language,
knitting, or skateboarding. You know that getting good at something
new requires a lot of practice. For me, I love to learn new languages and
I'm proud to say I speak Spanish, Arabic, French, and
I even know ten words in Russian. Our world is shaped by the words and
the languages we speak and while some words may be unique
to one language you can always find similarities that
help you learn and understand. Being able to connect the dots between
cultures allows me to see things others might not, kind of sounds like
this applies to IT programming,huh? My point is, whether you're learning
French or Python, it 's never easy. You have to start small, learn the basics
and practice those until you master them. Only then can you move
on to more complex and impressive stuff and
I'm here to help you along that path along with my colleagues who
you'll meet in later courses. We'll start slow,
master the foundation's together and you'll soon be ready for
more challenging stuff. So are you wondering why we filmed this
course in a cabin on a lake in Canada. The truth is were actually in a game room
at one of the Google offices in Sunnyvale, California. We chose a different themed office space
for each course of the program just to mix things up and
I think I scored with this one. I should warn my manager that I'll be
hanging out in this one well after the course ends because it's super comfy. By the end of this course, you'll understand the benefits
of programming in IT roles. You'll be able to write
simple programs using Python, figure out how the building blocks
of programming fit together, and combine all this knowledge to solve
a complex programming problem. That's right, by the end of this course,
you're going to write a program in Python that's designed to solve a real-world
IT problem, super exciting right? We'll start off by diving into the basics
of writing a computer program. You'll get hands-on experience with
programming concepts through interactive exercises and real-world examples. You'll quickly start to see how computers
can perform a multitude of tasks. You just have to write code
that tells them what to do. Along the way, we'll be talking about
automation, which is process of getting computers to automatically do a task that
us humans normally have to do by hand. Now, some of the stuff can get
a little complex and confusing. I promise to do my best to make these
lessons clear and easy to understand, but if you get stuck at any point,
please feel free to re-watch the videos. Practice as much as you like and take the time you really
need to stand these topics. The goal of this course isn't to teach you
everything there is to know about software engineering because yikes,
that would be a long course. Instead, we're going to introduce you to
some of the key concepts of programming and scripting that will empower
you to spot opportunities for automation in real life. You're about to learn a skill that
can help you take your career to whole new levels. Are you excited? I'm excited, so let's jump in