In an earlier video, we saw how we can't use
the plus operator between an integer and a string because they're
different data types. But what happens when
we try to operate with an integer and a float
instead, let's find out. Error-free, Python has no problem performing
this operation. But what's up with
that, aren't integer and a float two
different data types? They sure are but there's a lot happening
under the hood here. Behind the scenes the computer
is busy automatically converting our integer
seven into a float seven. This lets Python
then add together the values to return results
that is also a float. We call this process,
implicit conversion. The interpreter
automatically converts one data type into another. We've called this out before, but it's worth
highlighting again that Python operations aren't
just restricted to numbers. You can also use
the plus operator to add together strings. This lets you do
things like create sentences from individual words. Just don't forget to add
spaces to each words. Otherwise, the computer
will run them all together. So what if you really want to combine a string and a
number, is it possible? It sure is but only with
an explicit conversion. In Python, to convert between
one data type and another, we call a function with the name of the type
we're converting to. Let's see how this works. Now, things are getting a
little bit more complex. Let's take a moment to unpack this to make sure
it all makes sense. In this script, we're first calculating the
area of a triangle, and when printing it we're
adding it to a string. To do this, we need to call the STR function to convert
a number into a string. Let's execute it and
check out what happens. Our number got
converted to a string and print it together
with the message. We've learned a little
bit about variables, values, expressions,
and conversions. Next up, we've got a practice quiz to help you
solidify your knowledge. As always, take your time and review the
content if you need. You've totally got this. I'll see you in the next
video once you're finished.