When we ask a computer to
perform an operation for us, we usually need to store values and give them names so that
we can refer to them later. This is where variables
come in handy. Variables are names
that we give to certain values in our programs. Those values can be
of any data type; numbers, strings or even
the results of operations. We already used
variables in some of our initial examples like using them to store a name or a value. Now we are going to
learn exactly how they work and how to
make the most of them. Think of variables as
containers for data. When you create a
variable in your code, your computer reserves a chunk of its own memory to
store that value. This lets the computer access the variable later to read
or modify the value. Let's see this in action. Imagine a simple script
that calculates the area of a rectangle using
the formula area equals length times width. Area, length and width can all be represented by
variables like this. In this script we are creating three variables and storing
different values in each. The process of storing a value inside a variable is
called assignment. Here we assign the length
variable the value of 10. We assign the width
variable the value of two and we assign the area variable with the result of the expression
length times width. An expression is a
combination of numbers, symbols or other variables that produce a result when evaluated. In this example, we are
multiplying the value of two variables to arrive at
the value that we want. Finally, we use our old
friend the print function to display the value of the area
on the screen. All right. We have just seen how to
assign values to variables, use expressions to calculate more complex values and then print the contents of a variable. Variables are important in
programming because they let you perform operations
on data that may change. For example, if we extended
our rectangle script to accept any input as the value of the length and
width variables, we could calculate the
area of a rectangle of any size or to give a
more IT focused example, say we have a script
that performs a specific operation on a file. We can extend that script to perform the same operation on any file but only if the program used a variable to
store the file name. You might have noticed that we assign a value to a
variable by using the equal sign in the form
of variable equals value. Generally, you can name
variables whatever you like but there are
some restrictions. First, you shouldn't use
as variable names any of the key words or
functions that Python reserves for its own, like print. Using these reserved
terms will make your program confusing to read
and will result in errors. Python also has some
restrictions on the characters you can
use to define a variable. Variable names can't have
any spaces and they must start with either a
letter or an underscore. Also, they can only be made up of letters, numbers
and underscores. Let's check out some examples of valid and invalid variable names to understand this better. I_am_a_variable is the
valid variable name. I_am_a_variable2 is also
a valid variable name. 1_is_a_number is invalid because variable names must start
with a letter or underscore. Apples_&_oranges
is invalid because it uses the special
character uppers hand. Last thing, remember that precision is important
when programming. Python variables are case sensitive, so
capitalization matters. Lowercase name,
uppercase name and all caps name are all valid
and different variable names, and that rule on
variables is invariable.