[MUSIC] Although we might not realize it, we reap the benefits of automation
all the time in our daily lives. Do you ever pay your bills
with scheduled payments or use a self check out at the grocery store? I always set my coffee machine to start
brewing before I've even gotten out of bed. The promise of fresh coffee
makes early mornings way easier. Automation is the process of replacing
a manual step with one that happens automatically. Take a traffic light for example, which continuously regulates the flow
of vehicles at an intersection. A traffic light requires a human
intervention only when it needs repairs or maintenance. The automatic regulation of traffic
means that humans don't have to stand at the intersection manually signaling
when cars should stop or go. Instead, people can concentrate
on more complex, creative, or difficult tasks like focusing
on where you're driving. What's more,
traffic lights don't get tired, bored, or accidentally display a green
light when they meant red. This highlights another benefit
of automation consistency. Let's face it, us humans are flawed and
sometimes we make mistakes, a human performing the same tasks
hundreds of times will never be as consistent as a machine
doing the same thing. But for all of its advantages
automation isn't a solution for every situation, some tasks just
aren't suited for automation. For example, they may require a degree of
creativity or flexibility that automatic systems can't provide or for more
complicated or less frequently executed tasks creating the automation may actually
be more effort or cost than it's worth. Think about when you get a haircut. What would it take to automate the actions
of cutting hair with a machine? The clients height,
the shape of their head, their current hair length,
and desired hairstyle would all need to be taken into account
when designing the automatic system. We need to replicate the creativity and
skills of a trained specialist along with extensive testing to ensure the clients
safety and quality haircut. And if you've ever had a bad
experience at a hair salon, you know quality can be subjective. In this case, the cost and effort of automation just isn't
worth the benefits of an automatic haircut would provide which is why
we don't have robot hairstylists. Not too complex, right? Automation is a powerful tool when used
in the right place at the right moment. It can save time, reduce errors,
increase consistency, and provide a way to centralized solutions and
mistakes making them easier to fix. Throughout this course, and an upcoming
ones we'll be talking about when it makes sense to apply automation and
exactly how you do it. Eventually knowing when and where to use
automation will become automatic for you.