In the last video, we talked about the
range function, and how it generates a sequence of numbers starting with zero. Sometimes, though, we don't
want to start with zero. For these situations,
the range function also allows us to specify the first element of
the list to generate. We do that by passing two parameters to the
function instead of one, like in the next example. Product equals 1 for n in range 1 to 10, product equals product n print product. In this example,
we're calculating the products of all
numbers from 1 to 10. For this operation,
it's important that we start with one and not with zero. If we'd started with zero, the whole product would be zero. Additionally, we can specify a third parameter to change
the size of each step. This means that instead
of going one by one, we could have a larger
difference between the elements. Let's check out this
example when you might want to do
something like this. First, we're defining a
function that converts a temperature value from
Fahrenheit to Celsius, and we're simply using a
conversion formula to do that. Then we have a for loop
that starts at zero, and goes up to 100
in steps of 10. Notice that we're using 101 for the upper limit
instead of 100. We're doing this
because the range never includes the last element, and we want to include
100 in our range. The body of the for-loop
prints the value in Fahrenheit and the value in Celsius creating a
conversion table. Let's see this in action. That example got you
feeling the heat. Don't worry, there's a quick rundown of what we've learned. The range function
can receive one, two or three parameters. If it receives one parameter, it will create a
sequence one by one from zero until one less than
the parameter received. If it receives two parameters, it will create a
sequence one by one from the first parameter until one less than the
second parameter. Finally, if it receives
three parameters, it will create a
sequence starting from the first number and moving
towards the second number. But this time, the jumps
between the numbers will be the size of
the third number, and again, it will stop
before the second number. Sound like a lot to
remember, but don't panic. As we've said before,
you don't have to try to memorize it all,
just keep practicing. It'll soon become second nature. To help you practice, we've
included all of this in a handy cheat sheet to refer
to whenever you need it. You'll find that in
the next reading.