[MUSIC] When we first came across the for loop, we called out that we can iterate
over a string character by character. But what if we want to access just
a specific character or characters? We might want to do this, for example,
if we have a text that's too long to display and
we want to show just a portion of it. Or if we want to make an acronym by taking
the first letter of each word in a phrase. We can do that through an operation
called string indexing. This operation lets us access
the character in a given position or index using square brackets and
the number of the position we want. Like this. This might seem confusing at first,
like Python is acting up. We're asking for the first character,
and it's giving us the second. What gives Python? Well, what's happening here is that Python
starts counting indexes from 0 not 1. Just like it does with the range function. So if we want the first character,
we need to access the one at index 0. Knowing that indexes start at 0, which one do you think will be
the last index in the string? It'll always be one less than
the length of the string. In this case, our string has six
characters, so the last index will be 5. Let's try it out. We see that the character in position
five is the last character of the string. And if we try to access index six, we get an index error telling
us that it's out of range. We can only go up to length minus 1. What if you want to print the last
character of a string but you don't know how long it is? You can do that using negative indexes. Let's see that in a different example. In this example, we don't know the length
of the string, but it doesn't matter. Using negative indexes lets us access
the positions in the string starting from the last. Nice, right? On top of accessing individual characters,
we can also access a slice of a string. A slice is the portion of a string that
can contain more than one character, also sometimes called a substring. We do that by creating a range
using a colon as a separator. Let's see an example of this. The range we use when accessing a slice of
a string works just like the one created by the range function. It includes the first number, but
goes up to one less than the last number. In this case, we start with indexed one,
the second letter of the string, and go up to index three,
the fourth letter of the string. Another option for the range is to
include only one of the two indexes. In that case, it's assumed that the other
index is either 0 for the first value or the length of the string for
the second value. Check this out. Accessing the slice from nothing
to 4 takes the first four characters of the string, indexes 0 to 3. Accessing the slice from 4 to nothing
takes everything from index four onward. All of this indexing might
seem confusing at first. Don't worry, we all took time
to wrap our heads around it. Just like all the challenges
we've come across so far, the key is to keep practicing
until you master it. And there are a bunch of exercises
ahead to help you with that. Now that we know how to select, slice, and
access the parts of the string we want, we're going to learn how to modify them. That's coming up next.