[MUSIC] The if and else blocks allow us to
branch execution depending on whether a condition is true or false. But what if there are more
conditions to take into account? This is where the elif statement, which
is short for else if, comes into play. But before we jump into how to use it, let's take a look at why we
need it in the first place. Let's go back to our trusty
username validation example. Now, what if your company also had a rule
that usernames longer than 15 characters aren't allowed? How could we let the user know if
their chosen username was too long? We could do it like this. In this case, we're adding an extra
if block inside the else block. This work, but the way the code is
nested makes it kind of hard to read. To avoid unnecessary nesting and make
the code clearer, Python gives us the elif keyword, which lets us handle
more than two comparison cases. Take a look. The elif statement looks very
similar to the if statement. It's followed by a condition and
a colon, and a block of code indented to
the right that forms the body. The condition must be true for
the body of the elif block to be executed. The main difference between elif and if statements is we can only write an elif
block as a companion to an if block. That's because the condition of the elif
statement will only be checked if the condition of the if
statement wasn't true. So in this example, the program
first checks whether the username is less than three characters long, and
prints a message if that's the case. If the username has at
least three characters, the program then checks if it's
longer than 15 characters. If it is,
we get a message to tell us that. Finally, if none of the above
conditions were met, the program prints a message
indicating that the username is valid. There's no limit to how many
conditions we can add, and it's easy to include new ones. For example, say the company decided that
the username shouldn't include numbers. We could easily add an extra elif
condition to check for this. Cool, right? You now know how to compare things and use
those comparisons for your if, elif, and else statements. And you are using all of
them inside functions. Using branching to determine
your program's flow opens up a whole new realm of
possibilities in your scripts. You can use comparisons to pick between
executing different pieces of code, which makes your script pretty flexible. Branching also helps you do all kinds
of practical things like only backing up files with a certain extension, or only allowing login access to a server
during certain times of the day. Any time your program
needs to make a decision, you can specify its behavior
with a branching statement. Are you starting to notice tasks in
your day-to-day that could be made more efficient with scripting? There's so many possibilities, and
we're only just getting started with all the cool stuff programming
can help you do. Wow, we've covered a lot
in these last few videos. Remembering all these concepts
can take some time, and the best way to learn them is to use them. So we've put together a cheat sheet for
you in the next reading. You'll find all these operators and branching blocks listed
there in one handy resource. It's super useful when you
need a quick refresher. So no skipping the reading.