[MUSIC] Remember how we mentioned that
Python is simple and easy to use? Python makes it easy to express
the fundamental concepts of programming like data structures and
algorithms with easy to read syntax. This makes Python a great language
to use to learn programming. And there are other reasons
to pick Python, too. Python is super popular
in the IT industry, making it one of the most common
programming languages used today. Python isn't new. Its first version was released by
Guido van Rossum back in 1991. Since then, the community that
develops it has grown and the language has advanced a lot. Whenever there's a significant change to
the semantics or syntax of the language, a new major version is released. In 2000, Python 2 was released. In 2008, we got Python 3. In this course, we'll use Python 3.7,
which came out in 2018. For many years, Python was considered
a beginner's language and was mostly used for teaching concepts or writing very
small simple scripts, like in this course. But in recent years, the adoption
of Python has grown dramatically. One reason for this is that
the language has become more powerful. It's also because there's more
tools available in Python for a growing range of applications. You can use Python to calculate
statistics, run your e-commerce site, process images,
interact with web services, and do a whole host of other tasks. Python is perfect for automation. It lets you automate everyday tasks by
writing simple scripts that are easy to understand and easy to maintain. That's why Python is the language of
choice for lots of people working in IT support, system administration,
and web development. Not only that, but it's also used
in fast-growing areas of IT, like machine learning or data analytics. Last but not least,
Python is available for download on a wide variety of operating
systems, like Windows, Linux, and Mac OS. And what's more, Python is so popular in
the workplace that if you are currently working in IT,
you've most likely encountered it already. And if you're planning a career in IT, chances are you'll interact
with Python quite a bit. So there's a whole lot of reasons for why
Python is relevant to today's IT industry. A large part of programming
is learning through trial and error and asking questions. So if at any point you get stuck,
don't get discouraged. Making mistakes helps you improve. The more you see failure or
broken code as an opportunity to learn, the quicker you'll master programming. I remember the first Python
script I ever wrote. It took a lot of refactoring, debugging,
and testing to get it to work. I relied on a lot of my teammates for
help and mentorship and wound up spending more time on Stack
Overflow than actually writing the code. Thankfully, you don't have
to reinvent the wheel. There's almost always someone on the
Internet who's trying to do what you're doing and can help point you in
the right direction when you're stuck. Sometimes it takes a village. It's really important to keep in mind that
even experienced programmers may need to ask a colleague a question from time to
time or look something up on the Internet. Whether you're a programming novice or have some experience in
software development, remember, the best programmers overcome challenges
by seeking help or using other resources. Once you've completed this program, you'll be well on your way to
confidently programming in basic Python. There's lots of information online that
will help you continue to develop your programming skills. For example,
there are lots of online courses for specific programming languages. You'll find answers to your Python
coding questions in the official Python documentation. You can use sites like Stack Overflow to
discuss and share with other developers. And you can ask questions
in our discussion forums. You can even subscribe to some of
the Python mailing lists to keep in the know on the latest
updates to the language. You're opening the door to
the whole world of programming, and it's super exciting to be joining
the development community. The most important thing to remember
is that you're never alone. Any questions you may have,
any time in your career, there are resources out there to
help you find the answers you need. Wow, [LAUGH] that was
a lot of information. Feel free to take a quick break,
grab something to drink, and then head on over to the supplemental
reading to learn more about Python and the resources out there to help you learn.