You made it through another quiz. You are doing
awesomely, keep it up. So far we've been
looking at variables, expressions and
operations which are the smallest
components of scripts. Up next, we're going to look at functions which are another crucial programming
building block. We've come across a few Python functions
in our examples so far: the print function that
writes text on the screen, the type function which tells us the type of a certain value and the STR function which converts a
number into a string. All those functions come
as a part of the language, and we'll look into a bunch of other built-in Python functions
throughout this course. But now we're going to see how to define our own
functions to tell the computer to do things that the language is built-in
functions don't. Let's start with
a simple example. In this piece of code, we're defining a function. Our function takes the parameter, here that perimeter is name and prints a
greeting for that name. This snippet is small but
it already shows a lot of important points about how we
define functions in Python. Let's go through
this step-by-step. To define a function, we use the def keyword. The name of the function is
what comes after the keyword. In this example, the
function's name is greeting. So to call the function
later in the script, we'll use the word greeting. After the name, we
have the parameters of the function which are
written between parentheses. In this example, we only
have one parameter, name, followed by a colon
at the end of the line. After the colon, we have
the body of the function. That's where we state what
we want our function to do. Note how the body is
indented to the right. This is a key characteristic of Python and we'll come
across to the bunch. For now, just keep in
mind that the body of the function must be to the
right of the definition. In this example,
the body contains just one line that calls
the print function. Looks simple, right? But creating functions can actually
be super powerful. The body of a function can
have as many lines as we want it to and do all
sorts of fun stuff. We'll find out exactly
what in later videos. But for now, let's execute
our function and see what happens. That's nice. But it's not too interesting yet. Let's make it do a little more. Our function now receives two
parameters instead of one, name and department and it
writes to separate messages. Again, notice the indentation. We can add as many lines as we'd like to the
body of the function but each line must be indented the same number of
spaces to the right. In this example, we're
using four spaces. We could use two or eight or any other number as long
as they're all consistent. Let's try calling our new and
improved greeting function. Nice. That's more useful, and we're only just scratching the surface of what we
can do with functions. Remember that these are
just simple examples but a function can do a lot more than just print messages. In this course and throughout
the upcoming courses, we'll explore a bunch of other
tasks that we can do with Python and usually we'll
write them inside functions. How are you feeling so far? These new concepts are
coming fast and furious now. Are you starting to get
to grips with it all? If so, awesome, and if some things are
still a little fuzzy, now is a great moment to go back and review everything
we've covered up till now. Once you're feeling good, meet me on over in the next video.