By now you've seen what
a recursive function looks like, how to write a base case and
the recursive case. You might be wondering why do we need
recursive functions if I can just use a for or while loop? Well, solutions to some specific
problems are easier to write and understand when using recursive functions. A lot of math functions
like the factorial or the sum of all the previous
numbers are good examples of this. If a math function is already
defined in recursive terms, it's straightforward to just write
the code as a recursive function. But it's not just about math functions. Let's check out a couple of examples
of how this could help an IT specialist trying to automate tasks. Let's say that you need to write a tool
that goes through a bunch of directories in your computer and calculates how
many files are contained in each. When listing the files inside a directory,
you might find subdirectories inside them and you'd want to count the files
in those subdirectories as well. This is a great time to use recursion. The base case would be a directory
with no subdirectories. For this case, the function would
just return the amount of files. The recursive case would be
calling the recursive function for each of the contained subdirectories. The return value of a given function call
would be the sum of all the files in that directory plus all the files in
the contained subdirectories. A directory of files that can contain
other directories is an example of a recursive structure. Because directories can contain
subdirectories that contain subdirectories that contain subdirectories, and so on. When operating over recursive structure, it's usually easier to use recursive
functions than for or while loops. Another IT-focused example of a recursive
structure is anything that deals with groups of users that can
contain other groups. We see this situation a lot when using
administrative tools like active directory or LDAP. Say your group management software allows
you to create groups that have both users and other groups as their members. And you want to list all human users
that are part of a given group. Here you would use a recursive
function to go through the groups. The base case would be a group that
only includes users listing all of them. The recursive case would mean going
through all the groups contained listing all the users in them and then listing
any users contained in the current group. It's important to call out that in some
languages there's a maximum amount of recursive calls you can use. In Python by default, you can call a recursive function
1,000 times until you reach the limit. That's fine for
things like subdirectories or user groups that aren't
thousands of levels deep. But it might not be enough for mathematical functions like
the ones we saw in the last video. Let's go back to our factorial
example from the last video and try to call it with n equals 1,000. Factorial(1000), See that error? It's telling us that we've reached
the maximum limit for recursive calls. So while you can use recursion in
a bunch of different scenarios, we only recommend using it when you need
to go through a recursive structure that won't reach a thousand nested levels. All right, we've just added recursion
to your growing scripting tool box. They're ready for
you whenever the situation calls for it.